[THEME MUSIC]
>>ADAM APOLLO: Thank you
guys for coming today.
We are going to be diving into
the ancient mysteries of Earth.
Where did humans come from?
Where did we come from?
What is this great story that
we're actually all a part of?
And why do we have all of
these amazing megalithic sites
all over the world that we
don't know how to build now
and yet we assume that the
story we're told in school
is correct that it was
all hammer and chisels?
Where did they come from?
What is the true story of
our journey as a people?
Did we have some super
epic advanced civilization
and then we just
forgot everything?
Did we start as monkeys and then
one day it was like, boop boop,
we got the gene upgrade.
OK, now we're going into full
on human gold production mode.
Well, these are mysteries
that a lot of us
have focused on solving.
And for me as a physicist
and a scientist,
I've been deeply
interested in getting down
to the nuts and bolts of it.
How do we actually
get some proof?
What do we actually
use to create proof,
to create a clarity
about who we are?
And it's great if
we can channel it,
it's great if we can
remember it from past lives,
it's great if we
can find the keys
to those secrets
with each other,
and it's also great when we
are given some solid ground
to stand on because then we can
also teach other people, right.
Sound good?
So I'm going to give you
some solid grounds here.
And to start with, let's
look at this incredible piece
of magic right here.
This is the bent
pyramid in Egypt.
The bent pyramid is
one that really just
doesn't get that much fanfare
but when you go to it,
it's so phenomenal and amazing.
Not a lot of fanfare,
a lot of beauty.
When I went to this thing
for the first time, what
astounded me the
most about this site
is that you find these sheets of
crystal, sheets of crystal that
have literally come off
the surface of this thing.
I have a bunch of them at home,
and they're about this thick,
perfectly clear as though the
whole structure at one point
was covered in glassy, beautiful
crystalline perfection.
Who the heck built this thing?
And why was it built?
And what is it all about?
The story in the mainstream is
that this structure was built
and they started making
this amazing pyramid
and halfway through
the guys are like,
oops, yeah, we
probably shouldn't
keep going at that angle.
Let's just accidentally--
let's change the angle.
And my friend Alan Green
who's right here actually
turned me on to this idea.
And he showed me-- he's
like, no, no, no, no,
this thing is not a mistake.
In fact, if you look at the
geometry of this structure,
the top portion of the
pyramid and the bottom portion
of the pyramid are each parts of
two different kinds of pyramids.
One has a perfect
pentagonal triangle,
the other one is actually a
perfect hexagonal triangle.
And so this pyramid embodies the
relationship between the five
six, the pentagram hexagram.
Now, if this is new
information to you
guys in terms of the importance
of these two geometries,
if you haven't had much
background in sacred geometry,
let me just tell you
everything in existence
basically comes out of
these two geometries.
Every single major
biological chemical
that operates our neurology
requires a combination
of a five six molecule
inside our bodies.
And as I'm going
to show you later,
it has everything to
do with mass, matter,
and the structure of reality.
Five pointed star is
literally the key in physics
to how space time curves
and we get gravity.
The geometry of the six is all
about how equilibrium can be
attained and electromagnetism.
This is Alan Green's work.
I showed you one of his slides.
You should get to
the rest of his work
because when you start
to unpack this mystery,
you start to understand
who Shakespeare
was and the encoding in the
pyramids and the knowledge
that he wove into his work.
Many, many mysteries
will unfold for you.
This is the cover of
Shakespeare's Sonnets.
How the heck did he
know or they know
about all of these
mathematical constants?
Some of them weren't
even created yet.
So this is me in the Serapeum
in Egypt, me in Peru,
me in Bolivia.
And a lot of this
talk I'm actually
going to take you to
different amazing sacred sites
around the world and show
you some of these spaces
and tell you about some of
the experiences I've had,
and start to build
a picture for you
about the physics and the
engineering of these sites
and what it can show us
about our true history
and who we really are.
So to start with we shall
travel down deep to the South,
to the lands of Peru,
the realm of Cusco,
to the place called
Ollantaytambo.
How many people have been to
Ollantaytambo in this room?
Amazing, one, with me.
Awesome.
So in Ollantaytambo, we took
a group of students here.
You can see this massive,
massive wall that's just
on the side of the mountain.
And it's got terracing
down below it.
And you can see one
of my students here
and just the scale
of these stones.
Each of these
stones individually
weighs in the range
of 180 to 200 tons.
Now, a stone that size--
for clarity-- you put it
on the back of a semi truck
because you want to go
drive it around somewhere,
it will literally crush the
axles of the semi truck, OK.
And interestingly
enough, this stone
comes from another spot in
this picture, the other side
of the top of this peak.
Now there's a story
about the Incas
and the Incan king who decided
I would challenge the gods
and become a great god
myself if I can but retrieve
a stone from the top
of the sacred mountain
and bring it down and across
the valley and up the other side
and into position as a
part of this great temple
of Ollantaytambo
built by the gods.
So let me impress the gods.
I'll take my 200 warriors, you
know, badass guys up there.
We're going to
tie this thing up,
we're going to take
it down the mountain.
Well, my friends, the
story did not go so well.
That stone pulled 200 men down
the mountain, killing them.
So the king failed.
He failed to replicate
the work of the gods,
and yet the archeologists
knowing this story
still say the Incas
must have built this.
Now, I'll tell you
as we go around
through some of these sites
you'll see stone structures.
And if you go to these places
you'll see plenty of stones
where it's like, oh yeah,
I could pick up a stone
and I could put it on another
stone and make a stack.
No problem.
That's easy to do.
But how would I
liquefy granite such
that I could squeeze it
in to perfect curvature
between stones?
How would I shape a
stone so perfectly
that if I run a laser
down the line of it,
it deviates less than
a tiny millimeter?
How would I take the surface
of those gigantic stones I just
showed you and instead
of carving into it,
I would create designs that
stick out in relief from it?
Meaning I have to make the
entire rest of the surface
of the stone go in an exact
amount, like an exact amount,
to let that relief stick out.
Huh, I wonder.
And when we get a little
closer to these structures
and this technology,
you'll notice
where the stones have separated,
I mean, it is laser sharp.
It is not just like
smooth, it's laser sharp.
The edges are cut as if
cut by a saw or by plasma.
And the stones are
squished together.
There are silly like engineering
level interconnections
between the stones.
Stuff just you wouldn't
do as an engineer.
And then you notice that within
the structures of these things
you have areas where they
have these little slots,
and each one of the little
slots is a perfect size.
And it turns out if you get
someone's head in the slot,
they can tone inside
the slot like mmmm,
you know, you go [HUMMING].
And when they hit the
resonant frequency,
the whole slot
vibrates and their head
vibrates and it's really cool.
But, guess what, if you get them
all vibrating at the same time--
caught some of my
students still over there
after we like moved
on from this--
but the whole wall
starts vibrating.
It's like energy and
information and everything else
starts coming out of the wall.
People with their
heads in the wall
start going, oh my god,
I'm getting downloads.
And the question I held for
a long time is, what is it
about the resonance
of these structures
that enables people to
access certain information
and get downloads and things
just from vibrating with it?
I'm a physicist so I'm like,
that's a hard question.
We will solve that
question in this talk
if you hang out with me for
the next hour and a half.
So here's Sacsayhuaman.
This is another one of my
favorite sites in Peru.
Sacsayhuaman got these huge
stones that are-- they're
more like a lot of
them 60, 70 tons,
but there's the occasional stone
that's in the hundreds of tons
here as well.
And the walls just keep going.
I mean, it just keeps
going and going and going.
And you look at
the size of this.
I mean, this is me doing
a little video shot of it,
and it just gives
you the picture.
Now imagine all you've got
is some logs and some ropes
and a hammer and chisel.
That's your tool.
And you're going to build that?
Are you kidding me?
And look how big it is.
Wave after wave after
wave after wave.
And it wasn't defensive.
Like I could just walk over
here and get to the next level.
It's not a defensive position.
It's not like it serves some
intensely important purpose.
It's not like each
one of these has
a sacred magical amazing temple
put on top of those stones.
It's just a wall.
But it was built
like it was easy.
You have other sites around
Peru, places like the Moray
Ruins, and the archeologists
are like, yeah,
they're just terracing.
Why would you terrace like this?
And how is it that if you go
here and stand in the center,
you're in a perfect
resonant amphitheater.
All the sound bounces
back at you perfectly.
Now, sure, there's certainly
some awesome and interesting
science and physics
to the plant growth
that could happen if you
sang at the right notes,
you could stimulate
seed development, right,
but the sonic engineering
alone here is notable.
Like even the fact that we only
know, really, think about that
and know that now that certain
frequencies can stimulate plant
growth in specific
ways, and yet they
were doing it way back then.
Potentially way, way, way
earlier than the time period
that the archeologists tell us.
There is a secret
hidden in these sites.
They're trying to tell
us something about sound,
about consciousness,
perhaps about cymatics,
how matter and form can
shape itself and change
based on vibration.
And maybe there's more
even to it than that.
Maybe the vibrational
magic of these sites
is actually just
intended to help open
our eyes and unlock something,
information perhaps hidden
in these sites,
part of ourselves
to reclaim some aspect of
who we really are as people.
Now, powerful vibrations, wave
fields, big magic of creation,
we end up kind of
looking at some
of these interesting
ancient cultural ideas.
Like the Ark of the
Covenant, this thing
that had this powerful field
around it, so resonant you
couldn't even get into
its space unless you
were in the right
kind of energy state.
An initiatory
field of resonance.
But when you get deeper into
questions about things like
the Ark of the Covenant-- and
many other speakers talk on this
so I'm just going to
move through it quickly--
what you find is that all of
them point to not the Ark box
but what's inside the Ark.
And what's inside
the Ark is often
described as the Black Sunstone.
A Black stone of some
kind that had the power
to control weather, that had
the power to lay people low,
had the power to shift the land.
Very, very, very powerful
thing, an energetic device,
an advanced device of some kind.
And perhaps there
wasn't just one of them.
There are keys
and little stories
and little bits that suggest
that there may have actually
been many of these in
different parts of the world.
Well, as I'm
traveling through Peru
I come across this
spot in Pisac.
And here in Pisac you
find this beautiful sort
of layered temple structure
across a mountain ridge.
And when you get to the far
back side of that mountain
ridge, the most tucked in, most
secure, most protected temple
in the structure,
you get to this area.
And the stones are
very different.
Can you see the stones
here in the corner?
This is Inca.
Look at these, not a
gap, not a feather.
They are perfectly
placed together.
And you see that
spot right there?
Zoom in on that guy.
This rounded chamber
with the special gate
in it surrounds this mound.
And what is this mound?
It's got this little central
peak thing sticking out of it.
But when you get close
to it and you look at it,
you realize it's melted rock.
It's igneous.
It was literally liquefied rock.
It turned into magma or lava
and poured out of the temple.
Now, this is not a
volcano and nobody's
going to take buckets of magma
and pour them in a temple,
are they?
No.
So how the heck was the central
structure of this temple
so superheated that the
whole thing literally
melted the rock itself?
And it melted so
much it literally
pours out of the temple.
I think this is a
position of one of the Ark
stones during the
pre-diluvian civilization,
just to get straight
to the point.
And when you look at this
area, as well as many
of other areas around
Peru, what you'll see
is this very clearly
regulated system.
They will run water channels
in very specific ways,
with very specific geometry,
and they run those channels
to very specific positions
around the core placements
of these key temples.
So water plays a big
role, but in this can also
see that magma way more.
You see that?
Look at this, layers upon layers
where molten rock flowed out
of that.
Crazy, right?
So maybe that's a spot where one
of the Ark stones used to be.
And perhaps that Ark stone at
some point ignited, blew up.
Something went wrong, energy
overload, temple core meltdown,
beep, beep, beep, beep, right?
Now Machu Picchu,
very well known place.
Everybody talks
about Machu Picchu.
Everybody goes to Machu Picchu.
But interestingly
in Machu Picchu
you have a central
zone of the temple
with the same exact structure.
Looks like it's
designed or positioned
to hold some kind of
central power object.
Power object that is
placed in such a way as
to have access to the
entire city structure.
That's where you put a
generator, basically.
And in this case all the
walls and the structures
around that spot are
gone, pretty much.
Most of them are
basically blown away.
So you're looking from
this spot and you just
have this beautiful
view of the valley.
But as you go a little further
down just off of that ledge,
what you end up finding is all
of the structures around that
particular spot are these
super advanced well packed
in stone structures.
It's like they had
the whole thing set up
to contain and support
this massive energy system,
but at some point
something went wrong.
And the energy system
was removed or blew up.
No walls knocked down.
Maybe it had a different
kind of reaction
or was taken somewhere else.
So we don't have a
giant magma field.
And you can go Machu
Picchu and see this.
And it's really, really
potent when you're there
to notice the difference
between the stacks of rock
that are clearly Inca stacks,
and these other kinds of rock
where the stone is literally
molded into the landscape.
It's just designed perfectly.
It's every single placement
put in order and in position.
Now, we traveled from
Peru down to Bolivia.
And there's many
other amazing things
I could tell you about Peru, but
I've got to keep this moving.
And as we travel
down into Bolivia,
I noticed something really
interesting about the Andes
on either side of the road.
And that is that there is
evidence of old terracing
on the mountains.
Now, we have evidence
of Incan terracing.
And Incan and terracing
has mostly survived.
It's not actually
even really that old.
But the terracing on the
Andes between Peru and Bolivia
as you travel
there, doesn't just
go in the bottom
of the mountains
like the Inca terraces do.
The terracing on these mountains
goes all the way to the top.
Can you see all those lines?
All those terrace lines?
And this is every mountain
all the way there.
And you ask the archeologists
and they're like, well,
we think there was
like two million Incas.
So maybe it's this big
breadbasket for all the Incas.
They were just growing
stuff on the mountains.
I'm like, two million Incas and
you've got these beautiful, rich
lush valleys.
But let's really
get real about this.
I live here.
Each one of those things
is taller than a human,
but I'm going to plant my
cucumbers way up there.
In fact, I'm going to
have different food
for different times of year
going from the base of the Andes
to the top of the Andes.
I mean, some of these mountains
go up thousands and thousands
of feet.
Massive vertical drop.
And yet they had
terracing at the top?
How are you even going to keep
up with the garden like that?
It doesn't matter how
many people you have.
You got guys over a span
of 100 miles or more going
up and down from the top to the
bottom of the mountain to farm?
It doesn't make sense.
A few more shots of some of
the glimpses of the terracing
as you're in that drive.
And, of course, when
you get to Bolivia,
you get to a place
called Pumapunku.
Pumapunku is this
incredibly advanced site,
but it is so destroyed that
literally all that's left now
is basically a bunch of the
blocks just kind of sat around,
strewn around by the
archeologists that
found them and was
just like, yeah, let's
just put that there, I guess.
The thing is
completely wiped out.
But the level of technology
used to build the structures
at Pumapunku, we have no idea
how they could pull that off.
Do you see this?
This is a laser
sharp array perfectly
with what look like screw
holes built into it,
bored into the granite, right.
I mean the angle, the precision,
everything about it is crazy.
And people don't even
talk about that stone,
they talk about
these, the H stones.
Probably seen these
in people's books.
And they are
remarkable, for sure,
but I found it even
more interesting
that a lot of the
gigantic megaliths that
were on the ground had
these pieces missing
that used to be some kind of
bridge between the stones.
Why would you have some kind
of heavy-duty anchor like that
between a massive--
two massive megalithic stones?
Well, if you get to know
the physics of vibration
and resonance, you realize that
if you want to connect stones
together in a
resonant frequency,
you need a particular
anchor in a specific size
to link the stones to pass
the resonance between them.
The same is true as if
there's charge in the stone.
Say there's a strong
electromagnetic charge,
you want the charge to
pass between the stones,
you would do the same thing.
So whether it's charge or
whether it's resonance,
the entire structure is
built in such a way as
to connect these different
stone structures together
to create a resonant field.
But whatever happened at
Pumapunku was so powerful,
was such big energy.
It's not like it just
aged and got into ruins.
The entire temple
structure went, boom.
The walls flew off.
Whatever it used to look
like, we have no clue now
because it was decimated by the
power of the energy source that
was there.
Yet, again, we're
seeing this evidence.
Oh, and you know, of
course, there just
happens to be a perfectly
round beveled piece coming out
of a stone here or another
perfectly round stone there
or a gate that's strangely
like, what is that?
A portal?
I don't know.
What are these missing things?
Why does it have
missing components
on the front and the back?
Why is it that when our
students go and walk through it
they feel like they're
passing through the plains
or that there's some
kind of gateway of energy
that used to be there?
What is really
going on after all?
I want you to keep that
mystery in your mind
as we now travel far
across the Atlantic Sea
and arrive in the epic lands of
Egypt, Kemet, the dark lands,
the place of so much mystery.
And here you see the same
structures, perfectly
round carvings, you know,
perfectly designed stone
structures, things that are
pretty much impossible to do
with a hammer and chisel.
And it gets really
interesting when
you consider stuff like
these rose granite pillars.
I was there with an engineer.
We looked at this
rose granite pillar,
it's big enough that you
basically take about four people
to wrap your arms around it, OK.
And it's one thing
to make a pillar,
it's one thing to just
carve something round,
but it's a different thing
to carve something that's
not only round but is perfectly
round and tapers as it goes up.
It changes diameter.
In order to engineer
a pillar like this
you need a turntable
the size of a freight
train to rotate the stone.
You need a two story
tall diamond saw.
You better spin that
thing at thousands of RPM
because you got to slice this
rose granite without chipping
it, sending cracks through it.
Rose granite cracks, OK.
And then you got to
angle it just right.
So you got to spin this
gargantuan amount of stone
while you're cutting it,
while you're angling it.
You need some
serious engineering.
And then for the
heck of it, let's
just not even keep
it a regular pillar,
let's add layers of these
beautiful articulations,
ostrich feathers or
Lotus petals at the top--
and just flare it
out at the top.
It's freaking astounding.
It's really astounding.
And everybody talks
about the Sphinx and--
Robert Schoch is a
good friend of mine.
I love his work.
He's just a genius.
And the Sphinx gets
all this attention.
The Sphinx is all
worn down, and there's
all of this mystery to
it because clearly it's
been rebuilt and rebuilt and
rebuilt and rebuilt and rebuilt.
But hardly anybody talks
about the Sphinx temple.
The Sphinx temple right
next to the Sphinx,
do you see the size of
the stones of this thing?
I mean, look at that one.
That's a 200-ton
block, at least, right.
And then there happens to be
this little guy, this one right
there.
I think we can close
up on that one, yep.
Take a look at that
stone for a second.
This used to be the facade.
This was what was on the
outside somewhere up the front.
Now, yeah, for sure it's an
interesting smoothly curved
stone.
And yet again they're like,
OK, so smooth curved stone, but
engineering that
kind of curve, to do
that kind of curve on stone, and
not just stone but really hard
granite, and not just granite
but-- and not just one spot
but doing it around an entire
massive temple structure,
no, no.
I'm sorry, we don't do that.
We can't do that now.
Do you understand?
We do not know how
to do that now.
Right?
So when you see in
the Luxor and you
see these interesting facades
and stuff, it is not granite
and it will never be curved
like that if it is granite.
We do not have those
engineering abilities.
And when you look inside
the temple, I mean,
the floor is alabaster.
For God's sake, I mean it
must have been so gorgeous.
The thing would
have glowed, right.
You ever been in an
alabaster spa where
they have light
behind the alabaster
and you get the golden
light inside of there?
I want one of those.
Manifestation board right there.
And you have these
beautiful spaces
and these towering stones,
and they're just so
artfully put together.
And, of course, they
don't just stack them,
you could do Lincoln Logs.
But why do Lincoln Logs when
I can take 150-ton stone
and curve it into the next wall?
I'll just do that
because, hey, it's easy.
It's so easy to do,
I'll do whatever.
I'll just do it
all over the place.
They'll love it.
You can imagine the guy,
the carver with the hammer
and chisel and the
pharaoh's like, OK,
now I want you to make a curve.
Then he's like,
oh god, you know.
And he's like just
chiseling away.
No, didn't happen that way.
Sorry, guys.
And then you've got the middle
of the empty desert place.
One of my favorite spots
called the Serapeum.
It's out between
Saqqara and Giza.
You're out in the
middle of the desert
and here's this tunnel that
just goes down into the Earth.
It used to be lined by
sphinxes on either side,
this grand palisade to
enter the sacred chambers.
But then, of course, the
French came and stole it.
They're like, we'll take those.
We're taking them to
the Louver with us.
And each of these chambers
inside the Serapeum
contained these massive
stone sarcophaguses.
Ha, and guess what.
It's not just a couple of them.
Each one of these weighs
70 to 100 metric tons.
They are diorite or granite.
They are complete with a
lid that's usually two feet.
In this case this one's
about three feet thick.
They have sealing
tracks, hollow interiors,
and they're single pieces
of stone, one stone.
Lid, body, everything else foot
and 1/2 feet thick, carved out.
Ha.
And the bottom portion--
you can see people
standing here--
this is like six,
seven feet tall.
This is about 16 feet long, OK.
And this one in particular
is really interesting
because it's got a bunch of
hieroglyphics carved on it.
Well, that must be the
guys that made it, right?
Except that the
hieroglyphics you
can tell they struggled
chipping it into the stone
because they couldn't even
get through the stone.
It's so hard.
In some places
they just stopped.
In some of the stones
they literally just
stopped writing the hieroglyphs.
They're like, OK, this
is too much, guys.
I'm just not even
going to do it.
And they're polished smooth.
You can put a laser
on one side of them
and it just, boom, beams
straight to the end
perfectly along the edge.
There's 24 chambers with these.
And there's another vault
they just opened up recently,
and there's over 40
containers in that one.
And the quarry where
the stone came from
is believed to have been
mined 50 miles away.
So how many freight
trains do you have?
And will the freight train
survive this stone on it?
Yeah.
So I decided to start
measuring these things
and figure out if they have
a specific resonant tonality.
Well, guess what, they do.
And the resonant frequency
inside of the ones
that you can get into
at least, or the ones
I could get in and
measure, turns out
to be the same exact resonant
frequency as another very, very
important place in Egypt.
What's it going to be?
And you know what they
say about this spot?
They say it's a tomb
for bulls because when
I lose my favorite bull,
when I got to take him down,
what better way to honor
him than to travel 50 miles
and chisel out a 150-ton stone.
And then carry that stone for 50
miles on the backs of my freight
trains.
And then I will dig a
hole 150 feet underground,
bore through solid limestone.
And, you know what,
my friends have
cows so I'll just bore chamber
after chamber after chamber
after chamber after
chamber after chamber
so that once I put my bulls
sacred sarcophagus in,
all of my friends can too.
And you know why
they say this, they
say that they found some
bull bones in one of these.
That was already
open, by the way.
And I have friends
who actually went
to the Ministry of
Antiquities, and they
provided all of their
academic credentials
and their archeologist
background, all the stuff,
we would just love to see the
bones of that bull, please.
Oh, you don't have them?
You mean you didn't save the one
thing of evidence that tells us
what these are supposed to be?
Oh, I got it,
interesting, you just
threw it out with the trash.
I understand.
I mean, bull bones.
I would be offended because
literally I wouldn't
tomb my bulls this way.
You can see just how
amazing they are.
And you can see here
the hieroglyphics,
how they're just like barely
etched into this thing.
This was not created in
the Egyptian dynasties.
This was not created with
the level of technology
that we claim all of these
sites in Egypt were built under.
So what the heck
is going on here?
Why go through this gargantuan
effort of building this thing?
Well, I'm not going to leave
that one a mystery for you.
I think the whole thing is a
resonance-based battery system.
It stores electricity.
Because each of these chambers
vibrate at the same harmonic
frequencies, it's possible
that you could channel water
through a structure that would
move through certain release
points and create the
sounds that you get when you
hear things like a bullhorn.
You know that like,
[MOOING],, right?
Imagine this loud horn of
water pressure pushing air
through a chamber
thing, getting all
of these things vibrating at
the same time, at the same rate.
And if you added things like
gold molecules or things
like that to the
water, you could also
potentially produce a
piezoelectric resonant effect,
produce electricity,
and then transmit
that electricity across Egypt.
An entirely different
form of electrical system,
an entirely different form
of energy storage than what
we are used to here and now.
And I love to show
this video by this guy
Erik S. This is
triboluminescence,
just so that you understand
the physics of what
I'm talking about.
If you place sustained
pressure on granite like this
and other certain
kinds of stones,
that granite will illuminate.
It will release photons
and electromagnetic charge.
Did you know that when
you use your watch
or you use a lot of these
things, the liquid crystal
effect and all of
that kind of stuff,
this is basically a different
form of this same phenomenon.
Piezoelectricity,
you squeeze a crystal
just right and
electricity comes out.
So here's all these sites
built with massive stones that
have the potential to
do this kind of thing.
So maybe they're actually
part of a much larger network.
And so I was like,
well, that would
mean they'd have to be evidence
of the water that would flow
here that would then be
channeled to different positions
and different locations.
That would have to be
there to back up my theory.
Well, it turns out you go
straight towards the Great
Pyramids from this
spot in the Serapeum,
and you end up here at Abusir.
Abusir is like just
one of these like parts
along this line in this area.
And Abusir has all of these
structures that look like what?
Like baths.
Like they caught liquid
and held liquid in them.
And most of them are carved
with alabaster, beautiful.
And you've got this big
eight sided structure right
in the center.
And this big structure
essentially has a massive lid,
and the lid is over a tunnel
that goes deep down underground
and connects to a tunnel
network underground.
OK, a little more
evidence there.
We're doing good.
And these structures, the things
that this water would flow into
or would be channeled through
are all this fantastic crystal.
They're all made of crystal,
beautiful exquisite crystal.
And this site, of course,
leads you to Giza--
if you keep going
that same direction--
cuts straight across
the desert, you'd
make it to the Great Pyramids.
And I had to find, OK, well,
is there a site at Giza
that we can prove that
there's water down there
or that there was a
tunnel system underground?
Because, yeah, I've been in
the Great Pyramid, right.
You go in the Great
Pyramid, you go
down to the underground
subterranean chamber,
the deep root chakra
of the Vitruvian man--
as Robert would say.
And you're down there
and there's this thing
and it looks like a well.
But it's filled in.
The piping of the chambers,
it's not really meant for people
to walk through so much.
It's like you're like really on
your hands and knees in there.
Like, OK, I've got
to get down here.
It's intense.
It's hard to get
into and out of.
And it turns out,
though, that there
is a secret spot you're not
allowed into right there
on the Giza Plateau.
And it's called
the Osirian Shaft.
And thanks to my good buddy
Robert Edward Grant and a lot
of baksheesh, we got in.
You climb down the ladder,
you climb down this one,
you keep going down, and guess
what, there's water under there.
A giant pool of it in this
beautiful amazing chamber
that clearly and
obviously must have
had some routing or
connecting to other sites
through this whole zone.
Nobody talks about this,
nobody points it out,
nobody even references it.
And why is it that the
Ministry of Antiquities
doesn't want anyone to
go down there at all?
Unless you really pay.
Interesting, right?
I also found it fascinating
there was tons of wood
down there.
Now if you go to a whole
different area of Egypt,
underneath what appears to be
a completely eroded pyramid
in Faiyum, we discover a
perfectly acoustically tuned
rose granite room with
curved granite ceilings
and a sarcophagus inside.
And that sarcophagus when
you measure its frequency
from inside by testing
its resonant frequency
until you hit the
exact number, it also
has that exact same frequency as
the one I found in the Serapeum.
That also matches
somewhere else.
Can you guess where it is?
Yes, the answer, of
course, to this question
leads us back to the
big epic, broad center
of the ancient
mathematical world.
The Great Pyramid
of Giza is an object
that is so full of mathematical
precision, knowledge, structures
that empower potentially
new kinds of engineering,
new kinds of understanding
between the connections
of the mathematical constants.
The Great Pyramid of Giza is
truly a marvel in so many ways
that you could spend probably
your entire life studying
it to understand it
and you would probably
only scratch the surface.
And, yes, the
place that vibrates
at that exact same resonant
frequency, the King's Chamber.
The King's Chamber,
in fact, has two
interesting resonant
frequencies in it.
The lower one, the
one that you find
as the frequency in the Serapeum
and these other sarcophaguses
and these other
sites, other pyramids,
and places all across Egypt
all vibrate at 91.5 Hertz.
Interesting,
fascinating, 91.5 Hertz.
Well, it turns out after a
lot of work and a lot of study
in this space-- and I've
been in there many times--
I finally also found and
measured a higher frequency
inside the King's
Chamber as well.
And that higher frequency
harmonic that mostly you
can really only fully
feel and fully tune
when you're laying inside of
the Sarcophagus is 117.65 Hertz.
And I was like--
I came out of there I was like
Alan, Robert, it's 117.65, 765.
It's like a 6, 5, and a 7.
It's cool.
And you're like,
mmm, cool, all right.
Yeah, nice.
And I'm like, oh man, I got
to do better than that so
let me do some math here.
What's 91.5, 117.65.
And then I did that calculation.
Guess what the ratio is
between those two frequencies?
0.7777.
You can take out your
calculator and do it right now.
Ratio of 91.5 to 117.65, 0.7777.
I mean, weird, right?
I mean, those aren't even
notes that we know about.
Nobody even talks
about that ratio.
In music it's not like, oh yes,
no, play the ratio of the 0.7777
violin, right?
Like, it's not a
normal harmonic at all.
And yet we have all of these
ancient records and magic
and things that point to seven
as such a critical number
in our understanding of the
fabric of reality and ourselves.
Seven is this
beautiful expression,
sort of the first real prime
that when you divide it
into a circle, you can't
actually divide a circle
by seven evenly.
And it has these
endless tales going off
the numbers that go on forever.
And anything that has
divisibility by seven
or multiplication
by seven has all
of these fascinating properties.
And I won't get
into all of those
because this is not
actually a math talk--
and I do do some of those,
math and physics talks--
but to understand that they had
some reason here, some deeper
understanding they were
attempting to impart simply
by setting up the two higher and
lower resonant harmonic ratios
inside the King's Chamber.
And it also tells us, based on
that precision, that there's not
much mistake right now in the
resonance in the King's Chamber.
Sure it's had a few damages,
it's been blasted in a corner,
the Sarcophagus thing has
been moved, a piece of that
is missing, but even with
that, this chamber still
holds its tune.
It holds its note.
Now, I also discovered--
through the Great Pyramid--
that there are these other sites
all over inside the pyramid.
This is inside the Grand
Gallery, and each of these spots
is a resonant toning
machine, just like in Peru.
Hear that?
That's not even
the Kings chamber.
That's in the Grand Gallery.
And that's my buddy Mason.
He's an amazing singer.
But we get-- you get those
things ringing, suddenly
the Grand Gallery's
energy lights up,
the whole thing
starts resonating.
The Queen's Chamber has
its own resonant frequency,
so does the spot
down underground
in the underground chamber.
Each portion of
this structure is
designed to match
specific harmonics,
specific resonant frequencies.
And if you go
through them and you
activate them and you experience
them, boy, I can tell you,
you get some downloads.
Now it is also very hard
to get enough people
to get one of these things
vibrating in its totality.
But I'll tell you that the night
that Nassim Haramein and I led
a student expedition across
Egypt, we had all three pyramids
reserved overnight.
We had a group of
about 200 of us.
And so what we did is we split
into four different groups
and we went in to activate all
three pyramids at the same time.
So what we did is we had
the first group go in,
activate the Great Pyramid.
That group went
into the second--
second pyramid, first group--
next group went into
the first pyramid,
and then first group goes
into the third pyramid,
now there's one in
the second pyramid,
and I had the deep amazing
honor of being the third group
to enter the Great
Pyramid with all three
of them humming
at the same time.
And I went through and I
just did it with my students.
We went through, we
unlocked the sequence,
we got the whole thing
going, and you could feel it.
But not just feel it.
We had a doctor who
was in a wheelchair.
She's not a metaphysics person.
She would just scoff at
probably this entire conference,
or a lot of it.
And she was really
interested, though,
in the physics and the
mathematics of this stuff.
She's sitting outside at
night in her wheelchair,
and she said when we came
out of that Great Pyramid,
she looks at me she says,
I saw them light up.
There was light coming out
of the top of those things.
I don't even--
I don't know how you guys
did that but there was light.
And I realized at that
moment this was not just like
a grand magical experiment.
This was part of a reactivation,
a tuning process, an opening
and unlocking process in order
to access the deeper knowledge
and resonance in these stones.
[THEME MUSIC]